# VA1-in-VA0-Dreamcast

Just a snippet of code to generate a faked tacho / RPM signal to use the VA0 cooling / fan on a VA1 board that's been transplanted into a VA0 shell. You still need the VA1 controller PCB however, as the pinouts are completely different.

The VA0 uses a 2 pin fan with a heat sensor strapped to the cooling pipes

The VA1 uses a 3 pin fan with a tacho signal to tell the system the fans current RPM

This code was generated by RTM timer calculator, I've just calculated the code for a 9000rpm fan at max revolution. The fan is tiny, and isn't noisy at all and IMO the VA0 offers better cooling with the heat pipes, as oppose to the top plate that the GDROM drive sits on top being used as a heatsink.

The VA1 won't power up at all without a fan connected, with a 10k resistor across VCC to TACHO it will power on briefly and shut down.

With this code, a 10k resistor from VCC to TACHO, and a wire from an arduino nanos D10 pin to fans tacho (clones are ok, 168p or 328p) this will fix any issues, and the system will run 100% stable as it's receiving a valid RPM signal.

I just cut the wires off the fan and soldered them underneath the controller PCB to the appropriate pins of the fan header, with a 10k resistor from VCC to TACH under the board as well, but you could put the resistor on the nano side. As for powering the Nano, there's heaps of room behind the PICO supply on the insulating plastic and the pin headers are labelled with 5v and GND - so that's easy, and makes for a really neat installation.

If you're using a genuine supply you'll have to find your own 5v source, you could probably just use the fans VCC and GND  (it's a 5v fan)

